1. Web Specifications of Java EE?

Ans. Servlet- This specification defines how you can manage HTTP requests either in a synchronous or asynchronous way. It is low level, and other specifications depend on it
WebSocket- WebSocket is a computer communication protocol, and this API provides a set of APIs to facilitate WebSocket connections.
Java Server Faces- It is a service which helps in building GUI out of components.
Unified Expression Language- It is a simple language which was designed to facilitate web application developers.

2. Web Service Specifications of Java EE?

Ans. Java API for RESTful Web Services- It helps in providing services having Representational State Transfer schema.
Java API for JSON Processing- It is a set of specifications to manage the information provided in JSON format.
Java API for JSON Binding- It is a set of specifications provide for binding or parsing a JSON file into Java classes.
Java Architecture for XML Binding- It allows binding of xml into Java objects.
Java API for XML Web Services- SOAP is an xml based protocol to access web services over http. This API allows you to create SOAP web services.

3. Enterprise Specifications of Java EE?

Ans. Contexts and Dependency Injection- It provides a container to inject dependencies as in Swing.
Enterprise JavaBean- It is a set of lightweight APIs that an object container possesses in order to provide transactions, remote procedure calls, and concurrency control.
Java Persistence API- These are the specifications of object-relational mapping between relational database tables and Java classes.
Java Transaction API- It contains the interfaces and annotations to establish interaction between transaction support offered by Java EE. The APIs in this abstract from low-level details and the interfaces are also considered low-level.
Java Message Service- It provides a common way to Java program to create, send and read enterprise messaging system's messages.

4. Other Specifications of Java EE?

Ans. Validation- This package contains various interfaces and annotations for declarative validation support offered by Bean Validation API.
Batch applications- It provides the means to run long running background tasks which involve a large volume of data and which need to be periodically executed.
Java EE Connector Architecture- This is a Java-based technological solution for connecting Java servers to Enterprise Information System.

5. What does the web module contain?

Ans. The web module contains the following:

JSP (Java Server Pages) files
Class files for servlets
Web deployment descriptor
GIF (Graphics Interchange Format) and HTML (Hypertext Markup Language) files


6. What does resource adapt module contain?

Ans. The resource adapter module contains the following:

Java interfaces
Classes
Native libraries
Other documentation
Resource Adapter deployment descriptor
