1) What is PL SQL?

Ans. Oracle PL/SQL is an extension of SQL language that combines the data manipulation power of SQL with the processing power of procedural language to create super powerful SQL queries.

2) Explain uses of cursor.

Cursor is a named private area in SQL from which information can be accessed. They are required to process each row individually for queries which return multiple rows.

3) What are the two types of exceptions.

Error handling part of PL/SQL block is called Exception. They have two types : user_defined and predefined.

4) Show the two PL/SQL cursor exceptions.

Cursor_Already_Open

Invaid_cursor

5) What is a PL/SQL cursor?

Ans. A PL/SQL cursor is nothing but a pointer to an area of memory having SQL statements and the information of statement processing. This memory area is called a context area. This special area makes use of a special feature called cursor for the purpose of retrieving and processing more than one row.
In short, the cursor selects multiple rows from the database and these selected rows are individually processed within a program.

There are two types of cursors:

Implicit Cursor:
Oracle automatically creates a cursor while running any of the commands - SELECT INTO, INSERT, DELETE or UPDATE implicitly.
The execution cycle of these cursors is internally handled by Oracle and returns the information and status of the cursor by making use of the cursor attributes- ROWCOUNT, ISOPEN, FOUND, NOTFOUND.

Explicit Cursor:
This cursor is a SELECT statement that was declared explicitly in the declaration block.
The programmer has to control the execution cycle of these cursors starting from OPEN to FETCH and close.
The execution cycle while executing the SQL statement is defined by Oracle along with associating a cursor with it.

6) Differentiate between SQL and PL/SQL.

Ans. SQL / PL/SQL
SQL is a natural language meant for the interactive processing of data in the database.	PL/SQL is a procedural extension of SQL.
Decision-making and looping are not allowed in SQL.	PL/SQL supports all features of procedural language such as conditional and looping statements.
All SQL statements are executed at a time by the database server which is why it becomes a time-consuming process.	PL/SQL statements are executed one block at a time thereby reducing the network traffic.
There is no error handling mechanism in SQL.	This supports an error handling mechanism.


